docs/slurm.md, before:

---
id: slurm
title: Slurm
sidebar_label: Slurm
---

## Notes

---
List drain/draining/down nodes with the reasons

``` sh
sinfo -R -o "%n %E"
```

---
Parse hostnames from slurm's host list expression

``` sh
# Command
scontrol show hostname j-[001-004,010,123]

# Output
j-001
j-002
j-003
j-004
j-010
j-123
```

---
Obtain one particular node exclusively

``` sh
salloc -p <partition> -w <node> --exclusive -J <job> -t <walltime> --no-shell --no-kill
```

---
Update the limits of a user

``` sh
# Cores
sacctmgr --immediate modify user where name=kojiwell partition=short set GrpCpus=128
 
# Walltime
sacctmgr --immediate modify user where name=kojiwell partition=short set MaxWall=12:00:00
```

---
Create a maintenance reservation

``` sh
scontrol create reservation starttime=2020-12-22T08:00:00 \
   duration=infinite user=root,kojiwell flags=maint,ignore_jobs nodes=ALL
```

* The date format is `2020-12-22T08:00:00`
* The "ignore_jobs" flag is used to indicate that we can ignore currently running jobs 
  when creating this reservation. By default, only resources which are not expected to 
  have a running job at the start time can be reserved (the time limit of all running 
  jobs will have been reached). In this case we can manually cancel the running jobs as 
  needed to perform system maintenance.

---
Example of logrotate config for Slurm -- `/etc/logrotate.d/slurm`

```
##
# Slurm Logrotate Configuration
##
/var/log/slurm/*.log {
        compress
        missingok
        nocopytruncate
        nodelaycompress
        nomail
        notifempty
        noolddir
        rotate 5
        sharedscripts
        size=5M
        create 640 slurm root
        postrotate
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmctld
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmd
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmdbd
                exit 0
        endscript
}
```

Commit message:

Added summary on the Slurm page

docs/slurm.md, after:

---
id: slurm
title: Slurm
sidebar_label: Slurm
---

Slurm is a free and open-source job scheduler for large and small Linux clusters. It is robust, fault-tolerant, and highly scalable, used by
many of supercomputers in the world.

## Notes

---
List drain/draining/down nodes with the reasons

``` sh
sinfo -R -o "%n %E"
```

---
Parse hostnames from slurm's host list expression

``` sh
# Command
scontrol show hostname j-[001-004,010,123]

# Output
j-001
j-002
j-003
j-004
j-010
j-123
```

---
Obtain one particular node exclusively

``` sh
salloc -p <partition> -w <node> --exclusive -J <job> -t <walltime> --no-shell --no-kill
```

---
Update the limits of a user

``` sh
# Cores
sacctmgr --immediate modify user where name=kojiwell partition=short set GrpCpus=128
 
# Walltime
sacctmgr --immediate modify user where name=kojiwell partition=short set MaxWall=12:00:00
```

---
Create a maintenance reservation

``` sh
scontrol create reservation starttime=2020-12-22T08:00:00 \
   duration=infinite user=root,kojiwell flags=maint,ignore_jobs nodes=ALL
```

* The date format is `2020-12-22T08:00:00`
* The "ignore_jobs" flag is used to indicate that we can ignore currently running jobs 
  when creating this reservation. By default, only resources which are not expected to 
  have a running job at the start time can be reserved (the time limit of all running 
  jobs will have been reached). In this case we can manually cancel the running jobs as 
  needed to perform system maintenance.

---
Example of logrotate config for Slurm -- `/etc/logrotate.d/slurm`

```
##
# Slurm Logrotate Configuration
##
/var/log/slurm/*.log {
        compress
        missingok
        nocopytruncate
        nodelaycompress
        nomail
        notifempty
        noolddir
        rotate 5
        sharedscripts
        size=5M
        create 640 slurm root
        postrotate
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmctld
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmd
                pkill -x --signal SIGUSR2 slurmdbd
                exit 0
        endscript
}
```
